# Introduction

Visual system organization is characterized by a hierarchal network of visual maps throughout the thalamus, midbrain, and cortex. Proper visual map formation depends not only on innate genetic programs, but also on factors intrinsic to the cellular environment such as spontaneous electrical activity among excitable cells.

A considerable amount of visual circuit structure and function develops independent of sensory experience in reptiles, birds, and mammals. Molecular genetic factors coded for by the genome don't act alone, they interact with factors local and external to the cellular environment.  Yet proper formation of visual maps before vision proceeds in a neural activity-dependent fashion. Indeed, neurotransmission and more specifically spatiotemporal patterns of neural activity emerge in the cellular evnroeonmetn setup by intrinsic genetic programs. These spontaneous patterns of activity increase the informational complexity that the genome can carry by serving to scuplt neural architecture and synaptic connections so that the nervous system can begin performing computations relevant for visual behavior, learning, and memory at the start of vision. 


Spontaneous electrical activity is a self-organized property of neuronal circuits that emerges in the absence of sensory input. During development, immature networks of neurons exhibit spontaneous patterned activity, even before the onset of sensory experience. For example, it is well established that isolated perinatal preparations of spinal cord, retina, or cerebral cortex can exhibit periodic locally correlated activity among groups of neurons or widespread wave-like activity across populations spontaneously \cite{Marder:2005,Meister:1991,Wong:1993,Garaschuk:2000}. It is generally thought that these coherent patterns of spontaneous activity displayed by immature neurons could play a important role in directing the refinement of neural circuits, such as those underlying topographic maps in the somatosensory or visual systems, perhaps through Hebbian learning rules \cite{Hebb:1949}. The existence of spontaneous, patterned activity within immature neuronal groups before the onset of sensory experience may provide neccessary information that allows coactive cells to wire together.




Neural circuits are formed from an interaction between intrinsic and extrinsic cues during development. As originally proposed by Sperry \cite{Sperry:1963}, differentially expressed molecular gradients guide growing axons to their appropriate target structure and set up the overall topographic arrangement of neighboring axons \cite{Brown:2000,Sur:2001,Vanderhaeghen:2004,Garel:2004,Lemke:2005}. The ensuing interactions between axons and their target cells gives rise to an initial synaptic connectivity appropriate enough to make some functional aspects of adult circuits available before the onset of sensory experience, such as  retinotopic, ocular dominance, and orientation selectivity in the visual system \cite{Rakic:1976,Holt:1983,Crair:1998,Crowley:2000}. However, this initial synaptic connectivity in developing neuronal networks also gives rise to spontaneous patterns of correlated activity in various regions of the embryonic and neonatal central nervous system \cite{Galli:1988,Meister:1991,Garaschuk:2000,Marder:2005,Khazipov:2006}, which are widely believed to be important for constructing neural circuits. The clearest evidence of a role for spontaneous correlated neural activity in circuit development has come from studies of the ferret or mouse visual system, in which spontaneous 'retinal waves' were disrupted and corresponding deficits in axonal refinement and topographic map formation were observed in the targets of retinal afferents, the LGN and superior colliculus \cite{Penn:1998,Stellwagen:2002,McLaughlin:2003,Chandrasekaran:2005,Huberman:2006}. However, it is unknown whether spontaneous retinal waves can drive coherent firing patterns in the postsynaptic targets of retinal afferents. Since the occurrence of patterned activity in postsynaptic targets of networks undergoing spontaneous oscillations is essential to Hebbian based models of how emergent activity can drive circuit maturation, it is crucial to elucidate the networks underlying spontaneous activity generation in vivo.    

In this review we discuss recent evidence that clarifies the roles for spontaneous activity in visual map development and the nature of what the underlyiung activity is. We will refer the reader to recent reviews on how patterned spontaneous activity is generated within developing neural circuits as well as a review of the molecular signalling gradients that can provide gross positional information for growing cells.




Constructing functional brain circuits consists of a mix of genetic and experience dependent mechansims. Though mutations to single genes can cause severe alterations in neural circuit formation-- e.g. point mutations that cause cortical malformations give rise to childhood epilepsy and mental retardation\cite{Schwartzkroin:2000,Guerrini:2008}-- many types of neurological disease are probably caused by a more complex interaction between intrinsic and extrinsic factors. For example, the neurodevelopmental causes of autism spectrum disorders, schizophrenia, and epilepsy include genetic susceptibilities as well as gene-environment interactions\cite{Berkovic:2006,Persico:2006,Ramocki:2008}. Exogneous agents or altered social and sensory experience\cite{Robinson:2008} can affect gene expression profiles that lead to dysfunctional circuit formation. Since activity-dependent transcripton factors are now known to be definitively involved in synaptic connectivity\cite{Flavell:2008} and alterations in synaptic plasticity may underly neurological disorders\cite{Zoghbi:2003}, it is crucial to obtain a full understanding of the types and origins of patterned activity that occur during development, and their influence on immature neural circuits. 


A large body of work performed in the visual systems of fish, amphibians, and mammals has provided evidence for an activity-dependent mechanism involved in neural circuit development. Experiments performed in the readily tractable Xenopus visual system has shown a activity-dependent role for shaping retinotectal maps. For example, eye specific domains in the optic tecum of frogs that are induced by transplantation of a third eye\cite{Constantine-Paton:1978} are dependent on activity through NMDA receptors\cite{Constantine-Paton:1990}. The matching of binocular tectal maps in Xenopus that have received 90 degree rotations of an eye is prevented by application of NMDA receptor antagonists\cite{Udin:1988,Scherer:1989}. In goldfish, blockade of all retinal activity prevents the refinement of retinotectal arbors\cite{Meyer:1983,Schmidt:1985}. Zebrafish mutants that contain retinal ganglion cells incapable of firing action potentials have abnormal retinotopy\cite{Gnuegge:2001}. Finally, correlated spiking and NMDA receptor activation may mediate Hebbian forms of learning in the Xenopus tectum and effect retinotectal map development\cite{Engert:2002,Mu:2006,Vislay-Meltzer:2006}.

Classical experiments in cat visual cortex demonstrated that a critical period exists for remapping of ocular dominance domains\cite{Wiesel:1963}. More complex aspects of sensory processing such as selection for direction of visual stimuli in visual cortex\cite{White:2007,Li:2008} or cross-modal representation of retinotopic with auditory space maps in the optic tectum\cite{Knudsen:2002} have been shown to require activity-dependent information for proper establishment.

##Intrinsic mechanisms of circuit formation
Though sensory experience has a clear role in directing the refinement of synaptic connectivity, much of the coarse topography of neural circuits is established by molecular signalling early in development. For example, signalling gradients via Eph receptor tyrosine kinases and their ephrin ligands mediate much of the rostro-caudal and medio-lateral targeting of retinal ganglion cell afferents within the superior colliculus/optic tectum\cite{Lemke:2005}. The initial connectivity between axons and their target cells produces functional neuronal networks that are appropriate enough to make some aspects of visual processing available before the onset of sensory experience, such as retinotopy, ocular dominance, and orientation selectivity in the optic tectum and visual cortex\cite{Rakic:1976,Holt:1983,Crair:1998,Crowley:2000}.


##Spontaneous activity in developing circuits
Spontaneous oscillations play a prominent yet unclear role in brain function. Some of these rhythms could be an emergent property in circuits of neurons that have been recently used during awake states, such as the reactivation of neuronal groups during sleep that have been recently involved in a spatial memory\cite{Lee:2002}, thus strengthening the connections between them. Though it is unknown precisely how spontaneous oscillations arise within immature networks, there are numerous examples demonstrating that they do-- such as the spontaneous activity found in cultures of isolated neurons\cite{Mazzoni:2007}, as well as immmature in spinal cord\cite{Marder:2005}, retina\cite{Maffei:1990,Meister:1991}, and cortical circuits\cite{Leinekugel:2002,Khazipov:2006}. Spontaneous correlated activty may serve to strengthen the synaptic weights between coactive cells through voltage-dependent calcium influx that mediates downstream changes in transcriptional regulation. Alterations in gene expression may then lead to increased receptor clustering at existing synapses or formation of entirely new synapses with nearby cells. Evidence of a role for spontaneous activity-dependent refinement of neural circuits has been demonstrated in retinogeniculate, retinocollicular, and retinotectal topographic circuits\cite{Stellwagen:2002,McLaughlin:2003,Chandrasekaran:2005,Huberman:2006}.


